=head1 NAME

Perl 6 interface to the IUP toolkit for building GUI's.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perl 6 interface to the IUP toolkit. IUP is a multi-platform toolkit for
building graphical user interfaces. IUP's purpose is to allow a program
source code to be compiled in different systems without any modification.
Its main advantages are:

* it offers a simple API.
* high performance, due to the fact that it uses native interface elements.
* fast learning by the user, due to the simplicity of its API.

You will need the Linux libraries `libiup` and `libiupimglib` installed
in order to use perl6-IUP (version 3).
You can download the library binaries or sources for your platform from here
L<http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.7/>.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use IUP;

	my $iup = IUP.new();

	my @argv = ("Test");
	$iup.open(@argv);

	$iup.dialog($iup.label("Hello, world!")).show();

	$iup.main_loop();
	$iup.close();

	exit();

=head1 API REFRENCE

The perl6 API

=head1 AUTHOR

Henrique Dias - L<mrhdias@mail.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

IUP - Portable User Interface L<http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/>

=item *

IUP Source Repository L<http://iup.cvs.sourceforge.net/viewvc/iup/iup/>

=item *

C examples from IUP source repository L<http://iup.cvs.sourceforge.net/viewvc/iup/iup/test/>

=item *

IUP Downloads L<http://sourceforge.net/projects/iup/files/3.7/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
