=begin pod

=head1 NAME

Text::Tabs -- expand and unexpand tabs per the unix expand(1) and unexpand(1)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=begin code
    use Text::Tabs;

    $tabstop = 4;  # default = 8
    $lines_without_tabs = expand($lines_with_tabs);
    $lines_without_tabs = expand(:$tabstop, $lines_with_tabs);
    $lines_with_tabs = unexpand($lines_without_tabs);
    $lines_with_tabs = unexpand(:$tabstop, $lines_without_tabs);
    $lines_with_tabs = unexpand(:tabstop(3), $lines_without_tabs);
=end code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Text::Tabs does about what the Unix utilities C<expand(1)> and C<unexpand(1)> do.
C<expand()> will replace the tabs in a line with the appropriate number of spaces. C<unexpand()>
will convert spaces to tabs when it can save bytes by doing so (just like C<unexpand -a>).
Invisible compression with plain ASCII!

=head1 AUTHORS

Original Perl 5 code:
Copyright (C) 1996-2002,2005,2006 David Muir Sharnoff.
Copyright (C) 2005 Aristotle Pagaltzis

Perl 6 rewrite:
Copyright © 2010-2011 Philip Mabon (L<https://github.com/Takadonet>)
Copyright © 2011 Anthony Parsons (L<https://github.com/flussence>)

=head1 LICENSE

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the
author(s) be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial
applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:

=item 1.
The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the
original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product
documentation would be appreciated but is not required.

=item 2.
Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the
original software.

=item 3.
This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

=comment vim: filetype=perl6

=end pod
